Day-1
=======  

## Spring Basics, Spring Boot , Micro services ##

Pre requisites:

Core Java, OOPS, JDBC

## What is prog lang , technology and framework? ##

- C, C++, Java : prog lang
- JDBC, Servlet, JSP , EJB etc : Technlogies
- Spring, Hibernate, Struts, JSF: Frameworks.

Technology API gives:

- Interfaces --> representing rules

(When class implements an interface, all the methods of interface must be implemented)

- Concrete classes --> representing Guidelies

(You may or may not use super class methods in subclass)

- abstract classes --> representing both rules and guidelines

()

## From Java 8 ##

- Interfaces also represent rules and guidelines.

## Spring JDBC ##

Create JDBC template class object (takes care of common logics)

- Send and executes SQL Queries in DB software.
- Gather results and process results.
- So, there is no boilerplate problem, programmers just need to develope only app specification logics.


Day-2
======

# Different types of Java Framework #

## 1. Web application frameworks/ Web frameworks / MVC Architecture  ##


- Provides abstraction  on servlet , jsp technologies and simplifies the mvc architecture based java web application development.

struts --> from Apache
Spring MVC --> from interface21 (Pivotal Softwares)
JSF --> Oracle
Tapstrey --> Adobe

## 2. ORM Framework  ##

- Provides abstraction on JDBC Technology and simplifies to develope object based db software independent persistent logic.

Eg:

- Hibernate --> from redHat
- IBatis --> from Apache
- Eclipse Link --> from Eclipse
NOTE : Spring ORM is not giving its own ORM framework, but it is providing Spring ORM , Spring data JPA modules, providing abstraction on other ORM frameworks, mainly Hibernate.

## 3. Application Framework  ##

- Provides abstraction on multiple Java, JEE technologies and simplifies all kinds Java/JEE app development.

Eg: Spring --> by Pivotal 


- Spring framework provides abstraction on multiple Java, JEE technolgies like JDBC, JNDI Servlet JSP , EJB Java Mail, JMS etc.

- Using spring we can develope standalone app, web app, distributed apps, enterprise app etc.

- Using Spring, we can develope presentation logics, business logics, persistence logics, integration logics etc.


Eg: browser >--> FlipKart >--> Paypal >--> Visa >--> SBI

   --web app---Distributed app------Distributed app------Distributed app---

   - Web app is a client server app where client is browser and server is software app.

    - We can develope Spring Apps in 4 approaches:

1. Using XML driven configs
2. Using Annotation driven configs
3. Using 100% code driven configs
4. Using Spring Boot env.



Day-3
======


Based on kind of application we develope, there are multiple java frameworks:

- Web application framework
- ORM framework
- Application framework
- Distributed application framework
- Big data framework

## 4. Distributed Application Framework  ##

- Distributed app is a client server app where both client and server apps are programmable softwares.

Eg: PayTM, PayPal, Weather Report etc.

=> RMI, EJB are outdated technologies to develope distributed applications.
=> WebServices is the software env to develope distributed apps in different env like Java, .Net etc.
=> The webServies developed in java env. can be consumed in java itself or in some technology client apps like .Net, php, android etc. This feature is called inter-operability.

#### 2 types of webServies implementation is possible: ####

- SOAP based web services (SOAP= Simple Object Access Protocol) 
    1. jax-rpc
    2. jax-ws
    3. axis etc

- RESTful Web services
    1. Spring REST
    2. Jax-rs


Machine 1(B.computer.B.m1()) ----> network ------> Machine 2(B.computer), B.m1(){...}





### 5. Big Data Framework ###

- The data that is beyond storing and processing capacity is called BigData.
- Big Data frameworks are given to store and process huge amount of data with ordinary computers and storage devices with support of distributed data storage and processing algorithms.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


What id Java Bean?
====================

- Java Bean is a java class that developed by following some stamdards.
- Java Bean is always used as helper class to pass multiple values from one java class to another class that are there either in same project or in 2 different projects.

Eg: Flipkart passes card detail to paypal as java bean class object
=> Paypal passes payment transaction details back to Flipkart as another java bean class object.


The Standards are:

1. Class must be public.
2. Recommended to implement Serializable Interface.
3. All member variables (properties) must be private and non-static.
4. Every property must have 1 setter method and 1 getter method.
5. There should be one zero param constructor in the class directly (given by programmer) of indirectly (generated by compiler).

Explaination:
If class is not public, how it is visible to outsiders.

Recommended to implement Serializable Interface: 
because within the project it's not required. To send outside project, it must be serializable.

All member variables (properties) must be private and non-static: 
Private: to enjoy encapsulation.
non-static members are having their own memory, own data. Memory will be allocated inside the object (only when they are non static).

Eg: if 30 objects are there, and if static, they contain same copy of static member variable. If different, they can contain 30 distinct informations.

Eg: can we store 30 debit card info with static meber variable?
NO. If non-static, then they'll have there own memory, own data.

Every property must have 1 setter method and 1 getter method:
setter methods are there to set/modify the data to bean property.
Getter methods are there to read the values.

Easiest eay of creating object:
"new" operator or zero param constructor, either we'll create or container will create.

Class-4
=========

- Java bean setter methods are ueful to set/modify data bean properties and getter methods are useful to read data from bean properties.
- Every bean property should have separate setter and getter method, so we can set/modify and ready only property of our choice.

## Sample Java Bean ##


```java

public class StudentBean implements Serializable{
    //bean properties
    private int sno;
    private String sname;
    private String sadd;
    private float avg;

    // setters and getters
    public void setSno(int sno){
        this.sno = sno;
    }
    public int getSno(){
        return sno;
    }

    public string getSname(){
        return sname;
    }

    //other setter and getter methods

}

```

Problem:
==========

The java class which contains the business logic is called service class.

```java

public class EmpMgmtService{
    public string generateNetSalaryDetails(int eno, String ename, float baseSal, String desg, String company)

    //logic to calculate all those
}

```

client App/ User App
======================

```java 
public class ClientApp{
    psvm (String args[]){
        EmpMgmtService service = new EmpMgmtService();
        String result = service.generateNetSalaryDetails(1010, "Shubham", 10000000000.6, "SSE", "HCL");

            //here, we have to call remebering the order of the parameters, count of parameters.there is a rule in relatime: Don't design java method having more than 3 parameters.

        SOP(result);


    }
}
```
Designing java method having more than 3 params is having the following limitation:

1. While calling method, we must remember the order of passing args.
2. While calling method, we must get count of args.
3. While calling method, if we do not know 1 or 2 arg values, then we can not ignore to pass that. We must pass legal dummy value.
4. Method signature looks very complex to read and use.

Solution: Design java method having Java Bean as the parameter.

EmpDetailsBean.java
```java

public class EmpDetailsBean implements Serializable{
    //bean properties

    private int eno;
    private String ename;
    private float bsalary;
    private String desg;
    private String company;
    
    // 5 setters and 5 getters


}

```

Service class:

```java

public class EmpMgmtService{

    public String generateNetSalaryDetails(EmpDetailsBean edb){

        //get Employee details from edb object through calling getter mwthods. 
        //calculate gross and net salary.

        float gsalary= abd.getSalary() + edb.getSalary()*0.3f;
        float netSalary = gsalary - (gsalary* 0.1f);

        .....

        return "......"

    }

}

```

When parameter type is class name, then while calling we need to pass object of that class as the argument.

When parameter type is interface, then while calling we need to pass implementation class object as the argument.

When parameter type is abstract class name, then while calling we need to pass subclass object of the abstract class as the argument.

```java

public class ClientApp{
    psvm (String args[]){

        EmpDetailsBean edb = new EmployeeDetailsBean();
        edb.setEname("Shubham");
        edb.setsetBsalary(89999999999.5f);
        edb.setDesg("SSE");
        edb.setEno(89888);
        String result = service.generateNetSalaryDetails(edb);
        SOP(result);

    }
}


```

Advantages of designing java method having java bean as the parameter
=======================================================================

1. Method signature looks simple and easy to use.
2. While setting data Java Bean object, we need not to follow any order.
3. If we do not have 1 or 2 values, then we can ignore them while setting data to java bean. (no need of passing any dummy values).
4. Taking count of values to set to the java bean objects.
5. While calling setter methods to set data to java bean objects, the method names are self descriptive to set proper data.


What are POJO Class, POJI, Java Bean, Bean Class/Component Class and Spring Bean?
==================================================================================

1. The ordinary java class without any specialization is called POJO class.
2. In most of the situations, we can compile POJO classes by using Java/JDK libraries, i.e there is no need of adding JEE, third party libraries (jars) to the CLASSPATH.
3. The java classes that is not extending and implementing any technology and framework API classes and interface is called POJO class.
4. POJO class is not against of inheritance or implementing interfaces. It is afainst of inheriting from Technology/Framework API classes and against of implementating technology/framework API interfaces.
 
































